## OSI model

## Azure application gateway 
Azure Application Gateway operates at Layer 7 of the OSI model, which means it can make routing decisions based on content (such as URL path or host headers). This allows for more intelligent routing decisions, making it suitable for applications that require content-based routing. For example, if there's ```/images``` in the content of the URL, we can choose to route that request to a specific backend pool containing the images; and if there's ```/videos``` in the URL, application gateway will route the request to another backend pool containing the videos. So, at the layer 7 of the OSI model, application gateway can provide smarter routing decisions based on HTTP attributes and URL content. Azure application gateway also provides a web application firewall, which gives an additional layer of security against internet-based attacks.

## Load balancer vs appication gateway
A key difference between a load balancer and an application gateway is that application gateway allows for content-based routing decisions, making it suitable for web applications with different URL paths. Load Balancer focuses on network-level routing based on IP addresses and ports. Choose Azure Application Gateway when you need advanced layer 7 routing, SSL termination, Web Application Firewall, and content-based features. Use Azure Load Balancer for basic layer 4 load balancing based on IP addresses and the ports without the need for content inspection or advanced application features. Depending on your application requirements, you may use these services individually or in conjunction to meet your specific needs.